# Predicting-Loans-Future-Status-Classifying-Loans-with-High-Default-Risk-v.s.-High-Rewards-for-Lend
Loan is one of the most widely-used financial instrument for both individuals and institutions of various sizes. It is critical for financial institutions to understand and model credit risks, and to make proper decisions for granting loans. In this project, we are interested in applying machine learning techniques to develop models for predicting future loan status (default, late, full-paid etc.). This problem lies in the area of supervised learning, and in multi-classes classification in particular. We use the public accessible “All Lending Club loan data” from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/wordsforthewise/lending-club) as our learning dataset. The data set contains 1,646,801 records of loans from 2007 to Q2 of 2018 with various purposes from mortgage to small business. <br />
The original data set can be downloaded using the Kaggle link above. Codes for data cleaning, feature engineering and predictive modeling are under branches named "Data-Cleaning", "Feature-Engineering" and "Predictive-Models" respectively. <br />
All previous related works have been focused on binary classification between "fully paid" and "charged off" using limited number of manually selected features, which failed to take advantage of full information and introduced human biases. In our project, we developed in-depth study over the feature space and uncovered important correlations between status classes. We also focus on multi-classes loan status prediction model utilizing full information. The more robust model with detailed prediction classes in this project can help lenders to make more effective lending decision based on the loan features. <br />
For detail about methodologies, results and discussions of this project, please read the [project report](https://github.com/Yanxding/Predicting-Loans-Future-Status-Classifying-Loans-with-High-Default-Risk-v.s.-High-Rewards-for-Lend/blob/master/Project_Report_Cao_Ding_Xiao_CIS_520.pdf).
